# Explainable-HAR-AI
Machine learning and Neural Network algorithms used for my Master's thesis on Explainable AI applied to Human Activity Recognition Algorithms (https://repositum.tuwien.at/handle/20.500.12708/19887).
For this programs UCI HAR Dataset was used.

## Abstract
Data processing technologies such as machine learning have emerged and become increasingly complicated as the complexity of modern products and manufacturing processes has increased. Model complexity precludes finding possible problems since they are often treated as black boxes. This was also coupled with the recent growth in concern about privacy and cybersecurity, as well as the influence of legislation emphasising the necessity of data protection, such as the European GDPR. In this context, the demand for transparency and interpretability for machine learning algorithms has risen.This thesis argues for the importance of interpretability in machine learning models, especially in a human-centred production environment. Furthermore, methodologies currently in use for human activity recognition (HAR) were analysed in the literature. Different approaches for improving the explainability and interpretability of commonly used models are also highlighted. Finally, a repeatable methodology is proposed in this research to enhance the recognition of human activities.The proposed technique is divided into two parts: the first proposal involves data preparation and the use of the LIME and Submodular-Pick LIME explication algorithms in order to increase model interpretability. The interpretable results of the first proposal are used in the second suggested practise to reduce the amount of information introduced into the model. The results show that there is a trade-off between model’s accuracy in recognising human activities and the privacy of user data. However, applying the proper techniques the detection accuracy remains high, even though 55% of the data is removed. This enhances user privacy and leads to the use of less invasive models for the worker.
